README.md, before:

# Mullvad Proxy Gateway

[![Build](https://github.com/ChrSchu90/MullvadProxyGateway/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ChrSchu90/MullvadProxyGateway/actions/workflows/build.yml)

> [!Caution]
> Project is mid development and not yet ready for production use.
> Wait for the first stable release before using it!

Turn a single Mullvad WireGuard client into a shared SOCKS5 proxy server that lets you connect to any city provided by Mullvad. 
Route the traffic from any device or application through it and connect seamlessly to any Mullvad location.

<img height="180" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ec9d8b72-6827-4289-b076-c8b40f50fdd9" />

## Features ✔️
- ✅ Container healthcheck
- ✅ Local SOCKS5 proxy
- ✅ Dedicated SOCKS5 proxy server per [Mullvad city](https://mullvad.net/en/servers?type=wireguard) (up to 9 per city)
- ✅ One SOCKS5 proxy server pool per [Mullvad city](https://mullvad.net/en/servers?type=wireguard) with endpoint rotation
- ✅ Updatable server list on container start (optional)
- ✅ Configurable users
- ✅ User roles (Mullvad proxy, local proxy and metrics)
- ✅ Configurable bypasses (route traffic locally for defined URLs)
- ✅ Export proxy list as CSV and JSON
- ✅ [GOST Prometheus Metrics](https://gost.run/en/tutorials/metrics/) (optional)
- ❌ Multiple WireGuard configurations as fallback

## How it works 🏗️
The container uses `GostGen` to create or update the `gost.yaml` configuration for the [GOST proxy server](https://gost.run/en).
Because a large number of proxy endpoints is generated, the resulting configuration can become very large (12k+ lines).
Available servers are fetched from the [Mullvad Relay API](https://api.mullvad.net/www/relays/wireguard) to keep endpoints up to date.

After that, `wg-quick` starts the WireGuard connection using `wg0-mullvad.conf`.
This connection provides access to the Mullvad network, where SOCKS5 proxies are used as exit nodes.
Connection status is monitored via a healthcheck against [Mullvad Connection Check](https://am.i.mullvad.net/json).

Finally, [GOST](https://gost.run/en) starts with the generated `gost.yaml` config. 
Clients connect to the container IP and choose the desired location by using the corresponding city port.

## Setup 🛠️

### Data volume 📁
A `data` volume must be attached to the container.
The following configuration **files are required to run the container**:
- [WireGuard configuration](#mullvad-wireguard-config-) (`wg0-mullvad.conf`)
- [Gateway configuration](#gateway-config-) (`gateway.yaml`)
 
### Mullvad WireGuard config 🔐
> [!TIP]
> Use the **nearest available location** for the VPN connection. 
> The VPN is only needed to access the Mullvad network in order 
> to obtain the SOCKS5 proxies, which will then be used as the 
> exit nodes for the traffic.

[Generate a WireGuard config](https://mullvad.net/en/account/wireguard-config)

Example `wg0-mullvad.conf`:
```ini
[Interface]
PrivateKey = YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_HERE
Address = 10.64.123.45/32, fc00:bbbb:bbbb:bb01::5:7b2d/128
DNS = 10.64.0.1

[Peer]
PublicKey = SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY_HERE
AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0, ::/0
Endpoint = se-sto-wg-001.mullvad.net:51820
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

### Gateway config 🤖
Configuration file options for the GOST Config Generator:
| Name                  | Default       | Description                                                  | Allowed values                                                   |
| --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| LogLevel              | `Information` | Logging level of Gost Config Generator                       | `Verbose`, `Debug`, `Information`, `Warning`, `Error` or `Fatal` |
| AlwaysGenerateServers | `false`       | If `true` updates the proxy servers on every container start | `true` / `false`                                                 |
| GostMetricsEnabled    | `false`       | [GOST Metrics](https://gost.run/en/tutorials/metrics/)       | `true` / `false`                                                 |

Example `gateway.yaml`:
```yaml
LogLevel: Information
AlwaysGenerateServers: false
GostMetricsEnabled: false
Users:
  User1:
    Password: Password1
    HasMullvadProxyAccess: true
    HasInternalProxyAccess: false
    HasMetricsAccess: false
  User2:
    Password: Password2
    HasMullvadProxyAccess: true
    HasInternalProxyAccess: false
    HasMetricsAccess: false
Bypasses:
- 'example.com'
- '*.example.com'
```

### Docker examples 🐳
#### Compose 🧩:
```yaml
services:
  mullvad-proxy-gateway:
    image: ghcr.io/chrschu90/mullvad-proxy-gateway:latest
    container_name: mullvad-proxy-gateway
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "1080:1080"             # Local proxy
      - "9100:9100"             # Prometheus Metrics (optional)
      - "2000-3000:2000-3000"   # Dynamic Mullvad proxies
    volumes:
      - mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:/data
    cap_add:
      - NET_ADMIN               # Requirement for WireGuard client
    sysctls:
      net.ipv4.conf.all.src_valid_mark: 1 # Requirement for WireGuard client
    environment:
      TZ: Europe/Berlin         # Update to your timezone!
volumes:
  mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:
    name: mullvad-proxy-gateway_data
```
#### CLI 💻:
```bash
docker volume create mullvad-proxy-gateway_data && \
docker run -d \
  --name mullvad-proxy-gateway \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  -p 1080:1080 \
  -p 9100:9100 \
  -p 2000-3000:2000-3000 \
  -v mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:/data \
  --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
  --sysctl net.ipv4.conf.all.src_valid_mark=1 \
  -e TZ=Europe/Berlin \
  ghcr.io/chrschu90/mullvad-proxy-gateway:latest
```

## Exports 📤
📄 CSV example:
| Country  | City   | Location Code | Port | Target                                  |
| -------- | ------ | ------------- | ---- | --------------------------------------  |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2000 | random                                  |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2001 | al-tia-wg-socks5-003.relays.mullvad.net |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2002 | al-tia-wg-socks5-004.relays.mullvad.net |

🗃️ JSON example:
```json
[ 
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2000, "Target": "random"},
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2001, "Target": "al-tia-wg-socks5-003.relays.mullvad.net"},
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2002, "Target": "al-tia-wg-socks5-004.relays.mullvad.net"}
]
```

Commit message:

Add support for multiple WireGuard configs with connection check on container start

README.md, after:

# Mullvad Proxy Gateway

[![Build](https://github.com/ChrSchu90/MullvadProxyGateway/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ChrSchu90/MullvadProxyGateway/actions/workflows/build.yml)

Turn a single Mullvad WireGuard client into a shared SOCKS5 proxy server that lets you connect to any city provided by Mullvad. 
Route the traffic from any device or application through it and connect seamlessly to any Mullvad location.

<img height="180" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ec9d8b72-6827-4289-b076-c8b40f50fdd9" />

## Features ✔️
- ✅ Container healthcheck
- ✅ Local SOCKS5 proxy
- ✅ Dedicated SOCKS5 proxy server per [Mullvad city](https://mullvad.net/en/servers?type=wireguard) (up to 9 per city)
- ✅ One SOCKS5 proxy server pool per [Mullvad city](https://mullvad.net/en/servers?type=wireguard) with endpoint rotation
- ✅ Updatable server list on container start (optional)
- ✅ Configurable users
- ✅ User roles (Mullvad proxy, local proxy and metrics)
- ✅ Configurable bypasses (route traffic locally for defined URLs)
- ✅ Export proxy list as CSV and JSON
- ✅ [GOST Prometheus Metrics](https://gost.run/en/tutorials/metrics/) (optional)
- ✅ Multiple WireGuard configurations with connection check on container start

## How it works 🏗️
The container uses `GostGen` to create or update the `gost.yaml` configuration for the [GOST proxy server](https://gost.run/en).
Because a large number of proxy endpoints is generated, the resulting configuration can become very large (12k+ lines).
Available servers are fetched from the [Mullvad Relay API](https://api.mullvad.net/www/relays/wireguard) to keep endpoints up to date.

Servers will be automatically added or updated when the container starts if AlwaysGenerateServers is enabled (disabled by default).
If a new server is added to the Mullvad network, it will be assigned the next available port number after the last existing one. 
This prevents changes to the port assignments of existing locations.

After that, `wg-quick` starts the WireGuard connection.
This connection provides access to the Mullvad network, where SOCKS5 proxies are used as exit nodes.
The container connection status is monitored via healthcheck against [Mullvad Connection Check](https://am.i.mullvad.net/json).

Finally, [GOST](https://gost.run/en) is started with the generated configuration. It provides a local SOCKS5 proxy as 
well as proxy endpoints for all available Mullvad locations worldwide. Clients can connect to the container’s IP address 
and select the desired target location by using the corresponding city-specific port.

## Setup 🛠️

### Data volume 📁
A `data` volume must be mounted to the container.
The following configuration **files are required to run the container**:
- [WireGuard configuration(s)](#mullvad-wireguard-config-) (`*.conf`)
- [Gateway configuration](#gateway-config-) (`gateway.yaml`)
 
### Mullvad WireGuard config 🔐
> [!TIP]
> Use the **nearest available location** for the VPN connection. 
> The VPN is only needed to access the Mullvad network in order 
> to obtain the SOCKS5 proxies, which will then be used as the 
> exit nodes for the traffic.

Open the [WireGuard configuration file generator](https://mullvad.net/en/account/wireguard-config) 
and download multiple configuration files (for example, for Germany – Frankfurt).

Place the downloaded configuration files in the data folder.
Please note that the file names determine the order in which the connections are attempted, so name them accordingly (e.g., de-fra-wg-001.conf, de-fra-wg-002.conf, de-fra-wg-003.conf, etc.).

You may also include configurations for different locations. The first successfully working configuration will be used.

Example `de-fra-wg-001.conf`:
```ini
[Interface]
PrivateKey = YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_HERE
Address = 10.0.0.5/32, bbbb:bbbb:bbbb:bbbb::5:bbbb/128
DNS = 10.64.0.1

[Peer]
PublicKey = SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY_HERE
AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0, ::/0
Endpoint = de-fra-wg-001.mullvad.net:51820
```

### Gateway config 🤖
Configuration file options for the GOST Config Generator:
| Name                  | Default       | Description                                                  | Allowed values                                                   |
| --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| LogLevel              | `Information` | Logging level of Gost Config Generator                       | `Verbose`, `Debug`, `Information`, `Warning`, `Error` or `Fatal` |
| AlwaysGenerateServers | `false`       | If `true` updates the proxy servers on every container start | `true` / `false`                                                 |
| GostMetricsEnabled    | `false`       | [GOST Metrics](https://gost.run/en/tutorials/metrics/)       | `true` / `false`                                                 |

Example `gateway.yaml`:
```yaml
LogLevel: Information
AlwaysGenerateServers: false
GostMetricsEnabled: false
Users:
  User1:
    Password: Password1
    HasMullvadProxyAccess: true
    HasInternalProxyAccess: false
    HasMetricsAccess: false
  User2:
    Password: Password2
    HasMullvadProxyAccess: true
    HasInternalProxyAccess: false
    HasMetricsAccess: false
Bypasses:
- 'example.com'
- '*.example.com'
```

### Docker examples 🐳
#### Compose 🧩:
```yaml
services:
  mullvad-proxy-gateway:
    image: ghcr.io/chrschu90/mullvad-proxy-gateway:latest
    container_name: mullvad-proxy-gateway
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "1080:1080"             # Local proxy
      - "9100:9100"             # Prometheus Metrics (optional)
      - "2000-3000:2000-3000"   # Dynamic Mullvad proxies
    volumes:
      - mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:/data
    cap_add:
      - NET_ADMIN               # Requirement for WireGuard client
    sysctls:
      net.ipv4.conf.all.src_valid_mark: 1 # Requirement for WireGuard client
    environment:
      TZ: Europe/Berlin         # Update to your timezone!
volumes:
  mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:
    name: mullvad-proxy-gateway_data
```
#### CLI 💻:
```bash
docker volume create mullvad-proxy-gateway_data && \
docker run -d \
  --name mullvad-proxy-gateway \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  -p 1080:1080 \
  -p 9100:9100 \
  -p 2000-3000:2000-3000 \
  -v mullvad-proxy-gateway_data:/data \
  --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
  --sysctl net.ipv4.conf.all.src_valid_mark=1 \
  -e TZ=Europe/Berlin \
  ghcr.io/chrschu90/mullvad-proxy-gateway:latest
```

## Exports 📤
📄 CSV example:
| Country  | City   | Location Code | Port | Target                                  |
| -------- | ------ | ------------- | ---- | --------------------------------------  |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2000 | random                                  |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2001 | al-tia-wg-socks5-003.relays.mullvad.net |
| Albania  | Tirana | al-tia        | 2002 | al-tia-wg-socks5-004.relays.mullvad.net |

🗃️ JSON example:
```json
[ 
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2000, "Target": "random"},
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2001, "Target": "al-tia-wg-socks5-003.relays.mullvad.net"},
  {"Country": "Albania", "City": "Tirana", "LocationCode": "al-tia", "Port": 2002, "Target": "al-tia-wg-socks5-004.relays.mullvad.net"}
]
```
